# VNC Viewer

=> https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/a/65948  Encryption AlwaysOff
=> https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/recommended-steps-for-new-freebsd-12-0-servers  FreeBSD New
=> https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-basic-freebsd-maintenance  FreeBSD Maintenance


## §1 /Xorg
For the vncviewer, run X11 on FreeBSD

```
visudo
sudo freebsd-update fetch install
sudo pkg update
sudo pkg upgrade
sudo pkg install drm-kmod
sudo pkg install xorg
sudo pkg install dwm
sudo echo 'kld_list="i915kms"' >> /etc/rc.conf
sudo reboot
sudo Xorg -config
echo 'exec dwm' > ~/.xinitrc
startx
alt-shift-enter
vncviewer 10.20.30.45

```

## §2 /RealVNC
Be sure the VNC server is only internal LAN (firewall drops port 5900 requests originating from outside the subnet). On the Raspi device, change the VNC server configuration to allow viewer connections that don't have the RealVNC proprietary encryption. Follow the steps described in the StackExchange answer.

* `raspi-config`  
* Interfaces Options | VNC
* edit /root/.vnc/config.d/vncserver-x11
```
Authentication=VncAuth
Encryption=AlwaysOff
Password=e0fd0472492935da
```
* `vncpasswd -service`  


---

## * Notes, Lessons, Monologue
* Disable RealVNC encryption seems like a bad idea? That's why it's important to retrict viewer connections inside the LAN. This is the lesser evil of attempting to find a RealVNC viewer on FreeBSD, or don't use FreeBSD. On FreeBSD, TigerVNC is the vncviewer available via ports. So it's simpler to use vncviewer with FreeBSD, and configure the Raspi to accept unencrypted connections. 

* Why? Normally don't. However, these are interesting times. The HDMI on the Raspi is flickering and blanking. After ~six years, it's about to die. The last hope is to use it in headless mode. For our purposes, we want it to act as the build/test device for WebGPU experiments. So it can still drive displays indirectly.

###### 2022 興怡 | Always wrong, sometimes lucky
